README.md, before:

## puppet-cups module

## Important

After git tag 1.4.0_RC1 I have made a non-backwards compatible change to the way ppd_options and options parameters
work. If you want to use the old behavior, please use tag 1.4.0_RC1 or 1.3.0

## User Guide

### Overview

This type provides the ability to manage cups printers and options.

Limitations:

+ It currently does not support classes.
+ It currently does not set default printers.

### Installation

You can install the latest release version from the module forge by executing this command:

    puppet module install mosen-cups

If you are feeling brave, or want to test the version in development you can clone the github repository into
your module path. There is no guarantee that the most recent source repository will be workable.

This module provides new types in the form of plugins, so pluginsync must be enabled for every agent in the
puppet configuration (usually /etc/puppet/puppet.conf) like this:

    [agent]
    pluginsync = true

Without pluginsync enabled, any manifest with a `printer` resource in it will throw an error.

### Examples

#### Basic

The most basic printer install possible:

    printer { "Basic_Printer":
        ensure      => present,
        uri         => "lpd://hostname/printer_a",
        description => "This is the printer description",
        ppd         => "/Library/Printers/PPDs/Printer.ppd", # OR
        model       => "drv:///sample.drv/okidata9.ppd", # Model from `lpinfo -m`
    }

- The uri identifies how you will connect to the printer. running `lpinfo -v` at the command line will give you some
valid uri prefixes.
- The description only appears in certain dialogs on linux and friends. On OSX the description is the actual name of
the printer.
- The ppd or model parameter specifies the "driver" to use with this printer. You should use `model` wherever available
because most driver software will install straight into the cups model directory. You can get a list of valid models by
running `lpinfo -m` at the command line.

Removing the printer "Basic_Printer" from the previous example:

    printer { "Basic_Printer":
        ensure      => absent,
    }

### Advanced

An example using almost every possible parameter:

    printer { "Extended_Printer":
        ensure       => present,
        uri          => "lpd://localhost/printer_a",
        description  => "This is the printer description",
        location     => "Main office",
        ppd          => "/Library/Printers/PPDs/Printer.ppd", # Full path to vendor PPD
        # OR
        model        => "", # A valid model, you can list these with lpinfo -m, this is usually what you would call a
                            # list of installed drivers.
        # OR
        interface    => "/path/to/system/v/interface/file", # Interface script run for this destination
        shared       => false, # Printer will be shared and published by CUPS
        error_policy => abort_job, # underscored version of error policy
        enabled      => true, # Enabled by default
        options      => { media => 'A4' }, # Hash of options ( name => value ), these are lpoptions, be aware that not
                                           # all applications will even use the lpoptions file.
        ppd_options  => { 'HPOption_Duplexer' => 'False' }, # Hash of vendor PPD options, set on creation.
    }

- To find valid ppd_options values for a printer, install it locally using the vendor supplied PPD and
run `lpoptions -p <dest> -l`. You can also read the PPD if that's your thing.
- Note that some options like `shared` and `error_policy` are parameters available at creation time only.

### Facts

The module provides access to one additional facter fact "printers", which provides a comma separated list of installed
printers.

For more information about printer options, models, and uri's, refer to the CUPS documentation.

### Bugs

Please submit any issues through Github issues as I don't have a dedicated project page for this module.

## Developer Guide

### OSX Specifics

#### Printer Presets

Each printer can have a set of options, normally presented in the print dialog, saved as a named preset.
Named presets are stored in property lists at the following location:

    ~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.print.custompresets._PRINTER_QUEUE_NAME_.plist

#### Default Printer

If you select "Last Used Printer", it will select the printer in:

    ~/Library/Preferences/org.cups.PrintingPrefs.plist

As the default printer.

If you want to set the default printer, you probably shouldn't use `lpoptions` because it only governs the default
when submitting jobs under certain circumstances.

#### Default Paper Size

Again, OSX doesn't respect lpoptions when you set default page size via `lpoptions` or `lpadmin`.
The file containing the actual default page size is:

    ~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.print.PrintingPrefs.plist

Under the plist key `DefaultPaperID`, which has a string that relates to a non-localised paper size. The PrintCore
framework seems to have these listed in a binary plist under OSX 10.8. You can dump some localised strings using

    /usr/libexec/plistbuddy -c "print" /System/Library/Frameworks/ApplicationServices.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/PrintCore.framework/Versions/Current/Resources/English.lproj/Localizable.strings

#### Vendor PPD Options

The provider only alters PPD options on creation due to the way that `lpadmin` works. There seems to be no command line
interface for the direct modification of PPD files contained in `/etc/cups/ppd`. The CUPS web interface does however
provide the means to modify PPD options after the printer has been added.

### Contributing

You can issue a pull request and send me a message if you like, and I will consider taking the patch upstream :)

### Testing

The tests need a lot of improvement, but you can run them with RSpec in the typical way:

Make sure you have:

    rake

Install the necessary gems:

    gem install rspec

And run the tests from the root of the source code:

    rake test

#### Acceptance Tests

You probably won't want to run full acceptance tests due to the amount of time involved pulling down vagrant boxes, but
you can execute the beaker tests starting with:

    BEAKER_destroy=no bundle exec rspec spec/acceptance

And then re-use the provisioned guests with

    BEAKER_destroy=no BEAKER_provision=no bundle exec rspec spec/acceptance

Unset `BEAKER_destroy` after testing has finished or VM is dirty for the purposes of testing.

Commit message:

Add Ubuntu to acceptance testing. Reduce length of readme slightly. Create new test for the cups manifest.

README.md, after:

## puppet-cups module

## Important

After git tag 1.4.0_RC1 I have made a non-backwards compatible change to the way ppd_options and options parameters
work. If you want to use the old behavior, please use tag 1.4.0_RC1 or 1.3.0

## User Guide

### Overview

This type provides the ability to manage cups printers and options.

Limitations:

+ It currently does not support classes.
+ It currently does not set default printers.

### Installation

You can install the latest release version from the module forge by executing this command:

    puppet module install mosen-cups

You can also clone the source repository into your module path, but be aware that HEAD is sometimes broken.

### Examples

#### Basic

The most basic printer install possible:

    printer { "Basic_Printer":
        ensure      => present,
        uri         => "lpd://hostname/printer_a",
        description => "This is the printer description",
        ppd         => "/Library/Printers/PPDs/Printer.ppd", # OR
        model       => "drv:///sample.drv/okidata9.ppd", # Model from `lpinfo -m`
    }

- The uri identifies how you will connect to the printer. running `lpinfo -v` at the command line will give you some
valid uri prefixes.
- The description only appears in certain dialogs on linux and friends. On OSX the description is the actual name of
the printer.
- The ppd or model parameter specifies the "driver" to use with this printer. You should use `model` wherever available
because most driver software will install straight into the cups model directory. You can get a list of valid models by
running `lpinfo -m` at the command line.

Removing the printer "Basic_Printer" from the previous example:

    printer { "Basic_Printer":
        ensure      => absent,
    }

### Advanced

An example using almost every possible parameter:

    printer { "Extended_Printer":
        ensure       => present,
        uri          => "lpd://localhost/printer_a",
        description  => "This is the printer description",
        location     => "Main office",
        ppd          => "/Library/Printers/PPDs/Printer.ppd", # Full path to vendor PPD
        # OR
        model        => "", # A valid model, you can list these with lpinfo -m, this is usually what you would call a
                            # list of installed drivers.
        # OR
        interface    => "/path/to/system/v/interface/file", # Interface script run for this destination
        shared       => false, # Printer will be shared and published by CUPS
        error_policy => abort_job, # underscored version of error policy
        enabled      => true, # Enabled by default
        options      => { media => 'A4' }, # Hash of options ( name => value ), these are lpoptions, be aware that not
                                           # all applications will even use the lpoptions file.
        ppd_options  => { 'HPOption_Duplexer' => 'False' }, # Hash of vendor PPD options, set on creation.
    }

- To find valid ppd_options values for a printer, install it locally using the vendor supplied PPD and
run `lpoptions -p <dest> -l`. You can also read the PPD if that's your thing.
- Note that some options like `shared` and `error_policy` are parameters available at creation time only.

### Facts

The module provides access to one additional facter fact "printers", which provides a comma separated list of installed
printers.

For more information about printer options, models, and uri's, refer to the CUPS documentation.

### Bugs

Please submit any issues through Github issues as I don't have a dedicated project page for this module.

## Developer Guide

### OSX Specifics

#### Printer Presets

Each printer can have a set of options, normally presented in the print dialog, saved as a named preset.
Named presets are stored in property lists at the following location:

    ~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.print.custompresets._PRINTER_QUEUE_NAME_.plist

#### Default Printer

If you select "Last Used Printer", it will select the printer in:

    ~/Library/Preferences/org.cups.PrintingPrefs.plist

As the default printer.

If you want to set the default printer, you probably shouldn't use `lpoptions` because it only governs the default
when submitting jobs under certain circumstances.

#### Default Paper Size

Again, OSX doesn't respect lpoptions when you set default page size via `lpoptions` or `lpadmin`.
The file containing the actual default page size is:

    ~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.print.PrintingPrefs.plist

Under the plist key `DefaultPaperID`, which has a string that relates to a non-localised paper size. The PrintCore
framework seems to have these listed in a binary plist under OSX 10.8. You can dump some localised strings using

    /usr/libexec/plistbuddy -c "print" /System/Library/Frameworks/ApplicationServices.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/PrintCore.framework/Versions/Current/Resources/English.lproj/Localizable.strings

#### Vendor PPD Options

The provider only alters PPD options on creation due to the way that `lpadmin` works. There seems to be no command line
interface for the direct modification of PPD files contained in `/etc/cups/ppd`. The CUPS web interface does however
provide the means to modify PPD options after the printer has been added.

### Contributing

You can issue a pull request and send me a message if you like, and I will consider taking the patch upstream :)

### Testing

The tests need a lot of improvement, but you can run them with RSpec in the typical way:

Make sure you have:

    rake

Install the necessary gems:

    gem install rspec

And run the tests from the root of the source code:

    rake test

#### Acceptance Tests

You probably won't want to run full acceptance tests due to the amount of time involved pulling down vagrant boxes, but
you can execute the beaker tests starting with:

    BEAKER_destroy=no bundle exec rspec spec/acceptance

And then re-use the provisioned guests with

    BEAKER_destroy=no BEAKER_provision=no bundle exec rspec spec/acceptance

Unset `BEAKER_destroy` after testing has finished or VM is dirty for the purposes of testing.
